AD Enhancements in Version 2.15 (#7388)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _observing-your-data/ad/index.md

   - Enter a name and brief description. Make sure the name is unique and descriptive enough to help you to identify the purpose of the detector.
1. Specify the data source.   
   - For **Data source**, choose the index you want to use as the data source. You can optionally use index patterns to choose multiple indexes.
   - (Optional) For **Data filter**, filter the index you chose as the data source. From the **Data filter** menu, choose **Add data filter**, and then design your filter query by selecting **Field**, **Operator**, and **Value**, or choose **Use query DSL** and add your own JSON filter query. Only [Boolean query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/bool/) are supported in the DSL.

   **Example filter in DSL**

>    The query is designed to match documents that have specific values in the urlPath.keyword field. Specifically, it will match documents where the urlPath.keyword field is equal to one of the following values:

Author: Can we keep "one of the following"? The changed text does not convey that we don't have to match all 3 phrases.

   - Enter a name and brief description. Make sure the name is unique and descriptive enough to help you to identify the purpose of the detector.
1. Specify the data source.   
   - For **Data source**, choose the index you want to use as the data source. You can optionally use index patterns to choose multiple indexes.

>    - (Optional) For **Data filter**, filter the index you chose as the data source. From the **Data filter** menu, choose **Add data filter**, and then design your filter query by selecting **Field**, **Operator**, and **Value**, or choose **Use query DSL** and add your own JSON filter query. Only a [Boolean query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/compound/bool/) is supported for query domain-specific language (DSL).

Reviewer: Last sentence: "Only Boolean queries are"?

#### Example filter using query DSL

> The query is designed to retrieve documents where the `urlPath.keyword` field matches one of the following specified values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query is designed to retrieve documents in which the `urlPath.keyword` field matches one of the following specified values:
```

> The query is designed to retrieve documents where the `urlPath.keyword` field matches one of the following specified values:

Reviewer: Just want to confirm that it shouldn't be "The following query".

Author: It shouldn't be.

1. Specify custom result index.
   - If you want to store the anomaly detection results in your own index, choose **Enable custom result index** and specify the custom index to store the result. The Anomaly Detection plugin automatically prefixes the index name you input with `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-`. For example, if you enter `abc` as the result index name, the final alias name will be `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-abc`. This alias points to an index with a name that includes the date and a sequence number, such as `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-abc-history-2024.06.12-000002`.

   You can use the dash “-” sign to separate the namespace to manage custom result index permissions. For example, if you use `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-financial-us-group1` as the result index, you can create a permission role based on the pattern `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-financial-us-*` to represent the "financial" department at a granular level for the "us" area.
   {: .note }

>    - Using a custom result index allows you to build customized dashboards. When the Security plugin (also known as Fine-grained access control) is enabled, our default result index becomes a system index. As a result, the default result index is not accessible through the standard index/search API. You must use the anomaly detection RESTful API or the Dashboard to access its content. Consequently, you cannot build a customized dashboard using the default result index if the Security plugin is enabled.

Author: yes, I meant the Anomaly detection Dashboards.

      - `indices:data/read/search` - You need the `search` permission because the Anomaly Detection plugin needs to search custom result indexes to show results on the anomaly detection UI.
      - `indices:data/write/delete` - Because the detector might generate a large number of anomaly results, you need the `delete` permission to delete old data and save disk space.
      - `indices:data/write/bulk*` -  You need the `bulk*` permission because the Anomaly Detection plugin uses the bulk API to write results into the custom index.
   - Managing the custom result index:
      - The anomaly detection dashboard queries all detectors’ results from all custom result indexes. Having too many custom result indexes might impact the performance of the Anomaly Detection plugin.
      - You can use [Index State Management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/index/) to rollover old result indexes. You can also manually delete or archive any old result indexes. We recommend reusing a custom result index for multiple detectors.

>       - The Anomaly Detection plugin can also be used to manage the lifecycle of custom indexes. It rolls an alias over to a new index when the custom result index meets any of the following conditions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - The Anomaly Detection plugin provides lifecycle management for custom indexes. It rolls an alias over to a new index when the custom result index meets any of the following conditions:
```

Author: I used "also" to express users can either use ISM plugin or AD to manage their custom indexes. Should we keep "also"?

      Parameter | Description | Type | Unit | Example | Required
      :--- | :--- |:--- |:--- |:--- |:---

>       `result_index_min_size` | Specifies the minimum size of total primary shard storage (excluding replicas) required to roll over the index. For example, if `result_index_min_size` is set to 100 GiB and the index has 5 primary shards and 5 replica shards of 20 GiB each, the total size of all primary shards is 100 GiB, triggering the rollover. | `integer` | `MB` | `51200` | No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      `result_index_min_size` | The minimum total size of primary shards (excluding replicas) required for index rollover. If set to 100 GiB and the index has 5 primary and 5 replica shards of 20 GiB each, the total primary shard size is 100 GiB, triggering the rollover. | `integer` | `MB` | `51200` | No
```

>       `result_index_min_age` |  Specifies the minimum age of the index required to roll over. The index age is calculated from its creation time to the current time. | `integer` |`day` | `7` | No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      `result_index_min_age` |  The minimum age of the index required for rollover, calculated from its creation time to the current time. | `integer` |`day` | `7` | No
```

>       `result_index_ttl` | Specifies the minimum age required to permanently delete rolled over indexes. | `integer` | `day` | `60` | No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      `result_index_ttl` | The minimum age required to permanently delete rolled over indexes. | `integer` | `day` | `60` | No
```

1. Specify custom result index.
   - The Anomaly Detection plugin allows you to store anomaly detection results in a custom index of your choice. To enable this, select **Enable custom result index** and provide a name for your index, for example, `abc`. The plugin then creates an alias prefixed with `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-` followed by your chosen name, for example, `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-abc`. This alias points to an actual index with a name containing the date and a sequence number, like `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-abc-history-2024.06.12-000002`, where your results are stored.

   You can use the dash “-” sign to separate the namespace to manage custom result index permissions. For example, if you use `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-financial-us-group1` as the result index, you can create a permission role based on the pattern `opensearch-ad-plugin-result-financial-us-*` to represent the "financial" department at a granular level for the "us" area.
   {: .note }

>    - When the Security plugin (fine-grained access control) is enabled, the default result index becomes a system index and is no longer accessible through the standard Index or Search API. To access its content, you must use the anomaly detection RESTful API or the dashboard. As a result, you cannot build customized dashboards using the default result index if the Security plugin is enabled. However, you can create a custom result index to build customized dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - When the Security plugin (fine-grained access control) is enabled, the default result index becomes a system index and is no longer accessible through the standard Index or Search APIs. To access its content, you must use the anomaly detection RESTful API or the dashboard. As a result, you cannot build customized dashboards using the default result index if the Security plugin is enabled. However, you can create a custom result index in order to build customized dashboards.
```

>    - When the Security plugin (fine-grained access control) is enabled, the default result index becomes a system index and is no longer accessible through the standard Index or Search API. To access its content, you must use the anomaly detection RESTful API or the dashboard. As a result, you cannot build customized dashboards using the default result index if the Security plugin is enabled. However, you can create a custom result index to build customized dashboards.

Reviewer: Should "Anomaly Detection" be capitalized? Global: Should it be "results index" instead of "result index"?

      - `indices:data/read/search` - You need the `search` permission because the Anomaly Detection plugin needs to search custom result indexes to show results on the anomaly detection UI.
      - `indices:data/write/delete` - Because the detector might generate a large number of anomaly results, you need the `delete` permission to delete old data and save disk space.
      - `indices:data/write/bulk*` -  You need the `bulk*` permission because the Anomaly Detection plugin uses the bulk API to write results into the custom index.
   - Managing the custom result index:
      - The anomaly detection dashboard queries all detectors’ results from all custom result indexes. Having too many custom result indexes might impact the performance of the Anomaly Detection plugin.
      - You can use [Index State Management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/index/) to rollover old result indexes. You can also manually delete or archive any old result indexes. We recommend reusing a custom result index for multiple detectors.

>       - The Anomaly Detection plugin also provides lifecycle management for custom indexes. It rolls an alias over to a new index when the custom result index meets any of the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - The Anomaly Detection plugin also provides lifecycle management for custom indexes. It rolls an alias over to a new index when the custom result index meets any of the following conditions.
```

>       - The Anomaly Detection plugin also provides lifecycle management for custom indexes. It rolls an alias over to a new index when the custom result index meets any of the following conditions:

Reviewer: Does "following conditions" refer to the table, or should there be additional content here?

Author: refer to the table.

Reviewer: Thanks, @kaituo. I'd prefer "meets any of the conditions in the following table."

      Parameter | Description | Type | Unit | Example | Required
      :--- | :--- |:--- |:--- |:--- |:---

>       `result_index_min_size` | The minimum total size of primary shards (excluding replicas) required for index rollover. If set to 100 GiB and the index has 5 primary and 5 replica shards of 20 GiB each, the total primary shard size is 100 GiB, triggering the rollover. | `integer` | `MB` | `51200` | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      `result_index_min_size` | The minimum total primary shard size (excluding replicas) required for index rollover. If set to 100 GiB and the index has 5 primary and 5 replica shards of 20 GiB each, then the total primary shard size is 100 GiB, triggering the rollover. | `integer` | `MB` | `51200` | No
```

>       `result_index_min_age` |  The minimum age of the index required for rollover, calculated from its creation time to the current time. | `integer` |`day` | `7` | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      `result_index_min_age` |  The minimum index age required for rollover, calculated from its creation time to the current time. | `integer` |`day` | `7` | No
```

>       `result_index_ttl` | The minimum age required to permanently delete rolled over indexes. | `integer` | `day` | `60` | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      `result_index_ttl` | The minimum age required to permanently delete rolled-over indexes. | `integer` | `day` | `60` | No
```
